hello Randall how are you my friend I'm
doing very well
very welcome Jesse I'm good man do you
believe that there are survivors of
ancient Atlantis that are Among Us
perhaps with underwater bases or bases
on the moon and advanced technology
[Music]
yes
there's been lost knowledge but it's
never been completely lost it's not it's
been everywhere around us
some of it's been in every day
every day is haven't understood or
recognized
[Music]
according to a professional midwit
journalist at the guardian my next
guests highly acclaimed docu-series is
the most dangerous Show on Netflix
you've been described as a pseudo
archaeologist someone who Cherry picks
your data and that makes him the perfect
guest on our show American Alchemy if
you're going to roll your eyes at the
notion of mother Ayahuasca go drink some
Ayahuasca and then see if you're going
to roll your right the docu-series is
called ancient apocalypse and the
journalist is internationally acclaimed
best-selling author Graham Hancock since
his 90s cult classic Fingerprints of the
Gods Hancock has been accumulating an
abundance of evidence to show that our
modern historical narrative That
civilization was born a mere 6 000 years
ago in Mesopotamia is wrong and
incomplete it's gonna absolutely demand
a rewrite of history as we know it
Hancock thinks that the human species
has been suffering from Mass Amnesia and
that maybe hunter-gatherers were taught
basic Agriculture and astronomy by
Remnant survivors of an ancient
civilization that was wiped out in a
mass extinction event there's testimony
from the Ancients here they're saying an
enormous flood happened and that there
was a time where there were only a few
survivors
this hypothesis known as the younger
driest impact Theory sustains that an
asteroid from the torrid meteor stream
hit the earth causing a global cataclysm
to make things even trippier this comet
impact date almost perfectly coincides
with Plato's dates for the destruction
of Atlantis but let's rein in the
speculation on which civilizations
preceded ours inserting Atlantis as a
placeholder for that Civilization is
admittedly a little more speculative as
Graham Hancock would even admit I'm not
claiming or insisting that there was a
civilization that was actually called
Atlantis by Plato's time it was called
Atlantis but crazy speculations on
Atlantis notwithstanding I personally
think it just takes some childlike
instincts and basic inference to believe
Hancock's argument about the younger
driest impact Theory there's an
overwhelming amount of evidence to show
that a global cataclysm probably did
occur let's just take these high-level
facts
the modern field of archeology was born
a mere 200 years ago let that sink in
the very idea that we take is complete
Dogma That civilization started in the
Fertile Crescent six thousand years ago
that concept was only established 200
years ago with the discovery of the
great capital cities of Assyria and
Babylonia
as we explore and discover more ancient
archaeological sites our dates for
civilization get progressively older and
older take quebecally Tepe an ancient
burial site in modern turkey dating as
far back as 9000 BC and involving the
complex assembly of 50 ton blocks it's
not something that you're a
hunter-gatherer and you wake up one
morning and think oh I'm just going to
build the largest megalithic site that
will ever be seen anywhere in the world
Tepe was excavated in the 90s so I think
it would actually be the easy or safe
bet to say that in the next hundred
years we'll find architecture that
predates even this it's like a sort of
Moore's law for archeology the deeper we
go the older human history gets the
lowest Parts in any sediment layer are
the hardest parts to explore that's just
geology 101 and our digging an
underground mapping techniques are
getting better and better not to mention
you have entire swaths of the earth and
deep ocean that may have been above sea
level in times past the Amazon forest
which is the size of the Indian
subcontinent and the 4 million square
mile Sahara Desert that have basically
gone completely untouched and unnoticed
by conventional archaeologists
to say that we know what exists in these
massive black box territories is the
epitome of human hubris finally you have
hundreds and hundreds of flood myths
across cultures that had no contact with
each other the amount of corroborating
evidence for some flood having occurred
is overwhelming that story does not
sound alone that story is one of
approximately 2 000 flood conditions
right and for Skeptics to unequivocally
discount these texts because many of
them are religious in nature is itself
dogmatic and unscientific these are the
memory banks of our species it's in
these myths that the memories are passed
down I like to characterize Hancock's
books as oscillating between trippy and
speculative and very hard-headed and
scientific it's almost as if he'll write
one book for the esoteric psychonaut and
then the next for the modern scientific
skeptic his archaeological accounts have
been well covered on Netflix now and by
other podcasts so in this very raw
long-form interview I wanted to go off
off the deep end with him and get into
the secrets of the Ark of the Covenant
DMT and its history and its Transcendent
qualities and his fascinating beliefs on
Aliens which he writes about in his 2005
hitbook Supernatural so without further
Ado sit back relax and hit subscribe
while I explore the mysteries of our
forgotten past with this week's American
Alchemist Graham Hancock
[Music]
different parts of the rain have
different activities but you know that
don't you
[Music]
maybe you should interview me
because I've climbed the Great Pyramid
five times what two of those clients
were legal of course there was a time
when anybody could anybody could climb
the Great Pyramid but here's my little
anecdote I found xantha and I together
found at the top of the Great Pyramid on
the South Side overlooking what used to
be the Boat Museum uh on one step down
from the top we found the name p initial
P Hancock
5th of April 1916.
well my grandfather was Philip Hancock
no yes and he was in Egypt he wasn't
yeah he was in Egypt during the first
World War I still couldn't be 100 sure
it was him and at that time my dad was
still alive and he had my grandfather's
Diaries which were little things little
Diaries dozens of them and I went
through to the date given and I opened
that page and I saw just one line and it
said climbed Great Pyramid today
oh my God that's crazy that was my
granddaughter what yeah so I I am kind
of connected to that oh you're
completely connected that's enough
[Music]
but why did archaeologists tell us for
so long hunter-gatherers couldn't do it
and we needed agricultural populations
that could generate surpluses that could
pay for the Specialists the theory but
that was so now with archaeologists are
saying was I guess we were wrong about
hunter-gatherers so yeah the funny thing
about Michael Shermer there's a story
about him and I think his wife Jennifer
and they were I was like on their
wedding night
uh this mechanical clock starts playing
in the other room that was an heirloom
from her father okay and it hadn't
played and it was like completely broken
it hadn't played in like 20 years or
something and her father was supposed to
walk her down the aisle but he had died
prior to the wedding and it was this
mystical moment for him it's this
beautiful quote and I'm going to botch
it now if I were to paraphrase it it's
like we must throw away the dogmas of
science sometimes and make room for
these sort of anomalous mystical
Michaelson moments he says this in the
article I I'm I'm very happy to hear
that and and and I would say I've I've
only known Michael personally since 2017
when when I had a debate with him on the
The Joe Rogan Experience since then I've
had some some correspondence with him
and I I've found him to be a much less
dogmatic skeptic than I had taken him
and just just recently I had a had an
email from him concerning my ancient
Apocalypse series on on Netflix where he
kindly said that he felt that made her
I'd made a good case for my basic
proposition that we're we're missing an
episode of the human story that there
may have been a forgotten Lost
Civilization of the Ice Age and I think
to me that speaks well of Michael's
Integrity but that he that he's willing
to step out of an entrenched position
when the evidence speaks to the need to
step out of it rather than just sticking
in it all the time around so many of my
critics do so much of our planet has not
really been subjected to detailed
intensive archaeological survey I think
it's extremely premature for
archaeologists to be so confident in
their model of the origins of
civilization they should have some
humility and allow some leg room for
alternative suggestions to come in
instead of just trying to smash down
anybody who says something that doesn't
agree with their model perhaps be just a
little more warm-hearted a little more
open yeah allow that and and see what's
good in the in the alternative evidence
as being presented rather than just
trying to find bad things about it and
have a more constructive dialogue
instead of this you know we know best
and we're going to smash you down and
we're going to insult you and humiliate
you and call you any names we can so
childish really I don't even know what
arguments that like if they see
something like Gobekli tepey has been
that's been discovered since the 90s
yeah and so it's I don't even know what
arguments you have as to how the Fertile
Crescent is sort of the cradle of
civilization after that and then in your
amazing documentary docu-series rather
Netflix ancient apocalypse one of the
episodes is focused on right anybody you
have seven or eight others that are
pretty convincing as well and so at that
point it feels like kind of overwhelming
that the consensus should actually shift
to yes at the very least there should be
there should be willingness to consider
the possibility that we have missed an
important chapter of the human story you
want to know one reason and I'm sure
there are a whole host of other reasons
but why they reflexively might deny this
as well is because I think it
interestingly dovetails with stories in
the Bible and and other religious texts
around great floods well the flood of
course is a you know is a very important
story in the Bible I think what a lot of
what a lot of people who are who are
into the Bible don't realize that that
story does not stand alone that story is
one of approximately 2 000 flood
conditions right that have found all
around the world exactly the clearly
documenting a global phenomenon
to the sub
ject it totally confirms the the reality
of these inconceivably gigantic floods
that occurred at the end of the last
icing and if uh comment from the torrid
meteor stream were to hit the earth it
could create
A big flood you better
Torrid meteor stream was formed when a
massive Comet entered our inner Solar
System's orbit around 20 000 years ago
over time this comet has disintegrated
into smaller space debris like the very
famous 1.5 mile wide Comet Inky Anki and
other comets in the southern tourists
crossed the Earth's orbit yearly from
September to November while the northern
Torrid streams crossed the Earth
starting in mid to late October both of
these streams caused beautiful light
showers and give astronomers panic
attacks why because they can cause
massive damage on Earth in the form of
impacts and Air Bursts we're not dealing
with just little dust-sized particles
that burn up in the upper atmosphere and
that just as it was a danger to humanity
twelve thousand eight hundred years ago
it hasn't gone away and it still can be
a danger to us today just take comment
Shoemaker Levy 9 which collided with
Jupiter in 1994. it was only a little
over a half mile wide but its impact on
Jupiter was the equivalent to 6 million
megatons of TNT or 600 times the
destructive force of the entire Earth
nuclear Arsenal and isn't there
speculation that the 1908 tunguska
correct event was possibly correct
correct because the tunguska event took
place on the 30th of June 1900 may it
was an air burst it exploded in the air
flattened 2 000 square miles of trees
didn't kill anybody because it was over
an uninhabited area of Siberia but did
enormous enormous damage and the fact
that it occurred on the 30th of June
suggests very strongly that it was part
of the Tory media stream because that is
the peak of the torrids in June NASA's
DART program aimed to prove that humans
can deflect asteroids with satellites
and prevent Earth impact in fact
spacecrafts launched in November of 21
and September of 22 intentionally
crashed into dimorphis a minor planet
Moon of the asteroid didymus
successfully altering its orbit the
problem is dimorphous has a diameter of
200 meters not even close to the half
mile width of Shoemaker level it's
interesting that NASA Dart mission is
taking place now because we know that in
the next
30 years or so we are going to be
crossing a much more lumpy and much more
dangerous part of the touring meeting
that's interesting I didn't know that
yeah in fact um Dr Alan West one of the
scientists from the comet research group
he points that out that the next 30
years are a danger time
there are plenty of unknown comets in
the annually passing Torrid meteor
stream that have completely cataclysmic
destructive potential so we need to
invest in advancing our deflection
capabilities here of course it's not the
only Global threat there are many other
Global threats all of which require an
elevation of consciousness of the human
race we have to be get out of this this
tribal mentality where we're all hating
and fighting each other right and get
into a more loving and more positive
mentality otherwise it'll be like that
movie don't look up we're trying trying
to tell you that the entire planet is
about to be destroyed yeah yeah it was
an excellent movie by the way yeah yeah
yeah and it's it that it sort of
connects with all of this yeah
um I think the part where I struggle
most with and what I'd love to talk to
you about because I feel like most
interviews with you kind of focus on the
abundance of evidence that human history
is much older than we realize but I I
know you well enough to know that you've
done speculating beyond that and so
let's demarcate this to the audience
that this is speculation and we don't
know but it's interesting and because of
the abundance of evidence it's we should
be speculating that is that's it's
almost like our duty I think speculation
is very healthy uh and and
um you know we need to we need to step
out of the mainstream point of view
that's that's where I think people like
me can possibly pay play a useful role
so having said that yeah what's your
number one candidate for uh an
antecedent civilization I mean the
classic one would be Atlantis you wrote
a book called America before which
connects with this story yeah do you
think it is Atlantis are there other
pre-existing civilizations I think the
name the name Atlantis needs to be taken
as standing for something else it needs
to be taken the standing for something
larger I'm not I'm not claiming or
insisting that there was a civilization
that was actually called Atlantis by
Plato's time it was called Atlantis
Plato is the Plato is the earliest
surviving reference we have to this
Great Lost Civilization of prehistory
that he referred to as Atlantis his
Source was an ancestor of his uh he
didn't know him personally they were
separated by about 200 years but the
story had been passed down in the family
line and that ancestor was a very famous
Greek lawmaker so long
um and and we know that Solon made a
documented visit to Egypt
round about the year 600 BC in our
calendar and Solon went to a Temple
dedicated to the goddess Neath at sice
in the Delta and there the priest showed
showed him certain inscriptions on the
walls and he asked them to interpret and
they said that the what these
inscriptions recounted was a former
civilization which had been highly
Advanced but which was destroyed that
they said in a single Dreadful day and
night was swallowed up by the Sea and
vanished and the other point which I
think is really really important to make
and I do make this point in the in the
series yeah um is the date the date that
Plato gives us uh is right around the
younger Dragon well the point is that
when Solon was at that Temple and the
priests told him the Atlantis story and
how Atlantis was swallowed up by the sea
in a single terrible day and night
he asked them when did this happen
and they said 9 000 years ago now
immediately that's a date we can convert
into our calendar nine thousand years
ago in 600 BC is a date we call 9600 BC
which give or take 20 years is 11 600
years ago and just as the younger dryas
began cataclysmically with a sea level
rise twelve thousand eight hundred years
ago it also ended cataclysmically with
an even more massive sea level rise
eleven thousand six hundred years ago
and that massive sea level rise has a
name you'll just call it melt water
pulse 1B it's well documented nobody
disputes that there was a melt water
pulse 1B and it raised sea levels
massively literally overnight so here we
have Plato passing down a story with a
date attached to it which coincides
exactly with with what modern science
recognizes as a massive Global flooding
event yeah and when that's taken into
account with the evidence from the from
the Ed for building tax I think the
Atlantis story becomes a whole lot more
credible yeah you've often said that
well put you've often said that the the
human race
um is suffering from Amnesia Mass
Amnesia and a mutual friend of ours uh
Brian murescue who you sort of presented
to the World on Joe Rogan uh wrote a
great book called The immortality key
for which I wrote the forward for which
you wrote the forward and he talks about
not only the human race as suffering for
from Amnesia but this is kind of a
platonic concept the individual
suffering from Amnesia it is concept of
anamnesis that the birthing process is
kind of a traumatic forgetting process
of your primordial Soul yeah and that
these elusinian mystery rituals eluses
being 13 miles Northwest of Athens
you've been to elusive amazing is this
place where the fathers of Western
Civilization Plato Socrates if he
existed Aristotle all the great names
all the great names went and experienced
some form of maybe noises like knowledge
of their soul yes so do you think well
but it's important to add yeah that um
and and I first went into this in my
2005 book Supernatural yes which has
been recently reissued under a new title
of visionary the point is there's no
doubt in my mind that eluses was a place
it was a perfect setting for deep
psychedelic Journeys every initiate in
the early City Industries was given a
drink called the kaikon or the kikion
and they were given this drink then they
went down into this deep dark hallway we
don't know exactly what went on in there
because the rituals were kept were kept
secret but they then had extraordinary
life-changing experiences and in many
cases many of those great philosophers
said that what they lost was their fear
of death yes that they had had fear of
death before and after this experience
they no longer feel feared death yeah
and you know Brian also presents
excellent evidence that early
Christianity was a psychedelic a
religion yeah um and maybe the last
supper was a maybe it was a a second
maybe it was edible too
the idea that Christ's last supper was
actually a pagan mystery ritual is not
new in fact Martin Luther King wrote a
little-known essay called the influence
of mystery religions on Christianity
positing the Pagan continuity hypothesis
that Christianity wasn't born in a
vacuum but Bears a striking resemblance
to Pagan polytheistic traditions and
rituals that occurred across the ancient
world one of the leading Scholars who
compares the last supper with prior
Pagan rituals is Dennis McDonald a
theology professor at Claremont he
writes they eating flesh and drinking
blood point to the dionysian cult
imagery specifically the eating of the
Flesh and the blood of the God and the
immortality the initiates gain by such
activity he goes on to write that the
cult of Dionysus famously involved two
related rights speragmos and homophagia
the first dismembering was the ripping
apart of of living beasts the second
eating raw flesh was the placing of the
fresh and bleeding meat to the lips
which some ancient interpreters took to
be a reenactment of the eating of the
young Dionysus by the Titans the
participants celebrated Dionysus as the
one who had survived death and thus was
granted immortality as the Lord of souls
but even if you take the canonical
description of the last supper at face
value and say the Book of John things
can get kind of trippy
take John 6 5 3 truly truly I say to you
unless you eat the Flesh of the son of
man and drink his blood you have no life
in you the one who chews My Flesh and
drinks my blood has eternal life
this sounds very similar to the
elusinian mystery rituals Brian murescue
writes about in his book The immortality
key and this isn't even a gnostic text
like the Gospel of Thomas this is
canonical New Testament
[Music]
in religions as let's take particularly
the three big monotheistic religions
Christianity Judaism and Islam which
basically all worship the same deity and
the same prophets are recognized these
religions are all very very closely
interlinked all of them have officials
who priests rabbis mullers who interpose
themselves between us and the Divine
experience they they tell us what the
Divine experience is but we don't have
the opportunity to have that experience
ourselves and the thing about
psychedelics is that they provide a
direct experience a direct experience
not mediated by some official but an
experience that you have yourself and
that seems to be what was going on in
early Christianity yeah that people were
the Where Christ was seen more more as a
teacher than than as the Son of God and
what seems to have been going on is that
early Christianity was very much a
psychedelic religion and and it's really
only when the when the Roman Catholic
Church emerged and it started oppressing
people and the very first people it
oppressed were those other Christian
sects that had used psychedelics any of
the
um Council of nicaea in 325 which sort
of arbitrarily based on political
reasons kind of cuts down Christianity
into an accepted Canon that in many ways
it discounts some of the more
interesting books like the Gospel of
Thomas that absolutely that have to do
with a single individual's ability to
ascend into a more yes Divine Divine
State that's right you see the problem
is that the the State of Consciousness
that we have today that's dominant in
our society today is what I call the
alert problem-solving State of
Consciousness this is the State of
Consciousness that our society values so
it's interesting when you look at the
drugs that are legal in our society that
everybody has access to and that are
often glorified alcohol is one of the
drugs that our society has embraced well
I can understand why because because
alcohol does not lead people to ask
profound questions it's like a little
holiday from the alert problem-solving
State of Consciousness but that's all it
is and I just want to point out that
what the psychedelics do is offer us
much more than a break from that oh yes
they offer access to a completely
different state of consciousness the
other thing they do is they break very
blocked and narrow ways of thinking and
that's what depression is depression is
where you're locked into a state of mind
that makes you extremely sad and unhappy
and you can't escape from it you know
and the pharmaceutical drugs like
seroxat and Prozac and things like that
are absolutely [__] useless in
getting people out of depression I speak
from experience because I suffered from
depression So eventually what I decided
to do was just do a very gradual cut
down of the dose and I used a razor
blade to slice up the pills I just cut
it down day by day over six months until
finally I was clear of that horrible
medicine at least I did I experienced it
as a horrible medicine perhaps it helps
some people but honestly the scientific
studies that have been done suggest that
placebos are just as effective yeah as
as the SSRI antidepressant it recently
came out there's no correlation between
serotonin deficiency and depression I
know it's like okay you're saying this
now after 50 years exactly we've been
sold a myth we've been sold a lie and if
we look at the the world through a very
narrow limited perspective then all
we're going to see is narrow limited
things the role of psychedelics is
providing another lens that allows us to
see a wider reality can I offer you a a
crazy Theory and you can tell me if I'm
nuts okay so in 1973 Francis correct who
discovered the double helical structure
of DNA wrote a paper about directed what
a Nobel Prize won a Nobel Prize uh you
know renowned scientist he wrote a a
paper on directed Pan spermium
actually called life itself he wrote
papers on the book interesting I didn't
even know that the book is a tough read
that was published in 1989 one okay but
it's it's it's it's it's it's
fascinating and if I can just jump the
gun yeah yeah you probably know what I'm
going to ask yeah yeah
um the the Crick this is the world's
leading expert on on DNA came to the
conclusion that DNA could not have
evolved on this planet in the time
available for it you know the the
classic Model is that we have a sort of
primeval soup the the early Earth the
Earth forms about 4.5 billion years ago
four and a half thousand million years
ago
and for the first 600 million years it's
too hot to support any life until about
3.9 billion years ago it gets to the
stage where it could support very basic
life forms
and within a hundred million years of
that which across a span of billions of
years is a tiny amount of time within a
hundred million years of that by 3.8
million years ago bacterial life was all
over this planet and crick's view was as
a as a leading
scientist whose whole life was focused
on the study of DNA his life was that
DNA could not have emerged accidentally
from the Primeval soup on this planet in
just a hundred million years it needed
much longer to he still bought into the
Primeval soup idea but not on this
planet yes what he came down to was that
there must have been some other planet
somewhere else where a primeval soup had
existed and there had been enough time
for DNA to emerge from The Accidental
bumping together of molecules that's by
the way something I'm a bit skeptical of
Anywhere But nevertheless that was
Quick's point in life itself
and then he suggested that you know the
universe is very old at least 13 and a
half billion years old uh there's time
for life to have evolved elsewhere in
the universe and he suggested that what
happened was that the the first
primitive bacteria continued to evolve
on that distant planet
orbiting another son on the other side
of the universe that life began to
evolve and eventually a highly developed
civilization emerged on that planet I'm
not saying they looked anything like us
and by the way I need to emphasize this
is Crick this is not me yeah this is the
Nobel Prize winner who's saying this
yeah that life evolved on that planet
highly intelligent sophisticated
Advanced life form and then they
discovered that they faced certain Doom
that there was going to be he suggested
a supernova going off in their vicinity
which would strip their planet of all
life and uh to continue the correct
story he then said well the first thing
they would have done was to figure could
we get ourselves off the planet could we
go colonize another planet but the
distances in interstellar space were too
great for that to be feasible so they
did the next best thing they genetically
engineered bacteria they Incorporated
the DNA code within those bacteria and
then they
put the bacteria into cryogenic Chambers
in spaceships and fire them off in all
directions put some algae and CO2 for
food and then yeah you know and we know
that bacteria extremophiles can survive
in in extremely dire circumstances and
fired them off into the early universe
and cut a long story short 3.9 billion
years ago
one of those spaceships collided with
the early Earth Spilled Out its contents
of bacteria and there you have it life
begins to evolve on this planet and it
contains the DNA code that came from
another planet and fungal DNA is more
similar to human DNA than plants it's
fascinating which is pretty important
fungi are amazing things which are which
which are kind of halfway between the
animal and the Plant World they're most
most curious and incredible things so so
that was crick's suggestion and I I
don't think it's a wild suggestion yeah
particularly bearing in mind who it who
it comes from God he stuck his neck out
in proposing something like that yeah
yeah you know because there's huge um
Lobby behind behind the natural
selection and the and the darwinian
model sure he wasn't stepping away from
the darwinian yeah but he was trying to
solve an anomaly he couldn't understand
how DNA could have formed accidentally
in just 100 million years well it almost
feels like human evolution there are
gaps in human evolution and evolutionary
biologists you know like to say they
have these placeholder words like
punctuated equilibria yes but if you
really look at you know I think like the
stone date theory for example the
doubling and cranial size between two
million years ago and 300 000 years ago
and then the emergence of culture yeah
um which which you and Brian were rescue
talk about
a possible explanation for the emergence
of culture which I want to get your take
on is a lot of people say specialization
and culture inevitably comes from having
more time because you have agriculture
that's right you have talked about sort
of a transfer of Technology maybe from
an antecedent civilization what if
you're you're planting wheat barley and
Rye those were like the original sort of
things in the Agricultural Revolution
ergot grows on those things naturally
yeah and so what if there is you know
this it's almost like the ergot is like
a kind of a oh God yeah
okay summer goats are are deadly toxic
okay um but it happens that the one that
grows on on barley is not toxic and is
soluble in water so it can be turned
into it interesting so what so what if
the consumption of that is what spurred
all these ideas that have sort of
created a lot of modern civilization
well that's exactly the case that I made
in in my 2005 book uh Supernatural and
it's exactly the case that Brian's taken
much further in his what 2021 book uh
the immortality key that that it was and
and somebody else we have to recognize
Carl rocker no it's the late great
Terence McKenna oh yeah of course
Terence McKenna was a key thinker are in
this field yeah but I would recommend to
anybody who's listening his book food of
the Gods yeah was one of the first books
to suggest that this Quantum Leap
Forward in human behavior and in human
consciousness was entirely the result of
experimenting with psychedelics yeah and
he and McKenna thinks that
he talks about a mushroom trip where the
mushrooms say to him within my memory
exist the blueprints for hyper light
drives yeah I believe
God left certain drugs growing naturally
Upon Our Planet to help speed up and
facilitate our evolution
if you think about it if you have an
alien civilization would you present
yourself as a hominid Cree like a
foreign Invader a dominant creature or
where you subtly merge with the higher
hominid creature affect their thinking
yeah and hitchhike your way absolutely
to the next planet I think you go for
subtle subtle merging yeah and
um and this is where again Shamanism has
much to teach western western science
because shamans need to be taken
seriously when they say that the plants
and the fungi are teachers and that's
very mysterious thing anybody who's had
deep psychedelic Journey will know that
they get teachings in that journey and
those teachings generally refer to their
own lives on their own behavior and how
they behave it's very odd that a
mushroom or or a mixture of two plants
from the Amazon should cause us to
evaluate our behavior and should teach
us that maybe we've been doing stuff
wrong that we need to adjust and put put
right in the future yeah I myself have
had a have had a a creative
um gift from from psychedelics and that
was
back in 2006 drinking Ayahuasca in
Brazil over a series of five sessions I
was given literally given the entire
plot of a novel I'd never written a
novel before that's crazy uh but I was
given that the entire plot of a novel
which I eventually and at the end of
those sessions I I got a very clear
message from The Entity that I call
Mother Ayahuasca and frankly I don't
care if scientists roll their eyes
if you're going to roll your eyes at the
notion of mother Ayahuasca go drink some
Ayahuasca and then see if you're going
to roll your own right
um I was I was given the gift of a story
and I was given a very strong
instruction write it did you and I did
and I wrote it it's called entangled and
and it and it features um a young woman
24 000 years ago and a young woman today
who are entangled across time uh in in a
battle of good against evil and there's
a demonic force that is that is
traveling through time and that is
twisting Humanity out of our true
Mission and their job is to stop that
Force both in the Stone Age and today do
you consider yourself
Gnostic or what what would your because
Garden variety religious I'm not no I
don't I and in many ways you're anti
yeah I'm anti I'm not a Christian I
don't I don't belong to any religion
um
if I were to put myself in a category I
would say Gnostic is the right category
I wrote a book
um with Robert baval back in the 90s
called Talisman and of course the
gnostics were amongst the the first
people to be burnt at the stake when the
Roman Catholic Church as I put it pulled
on the jack book boot of the robin State
and began to persecute its competitors
and you talk about almost in that book A
through line of gnosticism in the form
of these sort of small kabbalistic I
believe it's continued I believe it's
continued the the the message has not
just evaporated but it's gone
underground and it's been and it's been
transmitted through various lines and in
some cases those lines may not even know
what they're transmitting anymore that's
interesting yeah so it's like in the
past you'd have the Templars the
rosicrucians or the Freemasons and now
there's like a hermetic transfer without
a real or exoteric organization even
existing yes it can it can be passed
down in that in that way
um I would say Freemasonry is an
interesting example
I'm not a Freemason myself I I'm not I
don't join clubs and I'm not a member of
that club and I never will be a member
of that club our friend Randall Carlson
Randall is a is a Freemason and I have I
have spoken uh in Masonic lodges I've
been asked to give lectures and I've
happily done so I'll I'll give a lecture
to anybody who's interested in in
hearing what I've got to say I've spoken
several times in Masonic lodges through
a mutual friend I know an archaeologist
who actually teaches at the University
of Exeter in the UK who's been involved
in lidar work in Colombia and they have
um they have identified what their
certain is an enormous pyramid wow in
the middle of the Amazon rainforest wow
and the next step is to put a team out
there and actually see it on the ground
well that's cool are you going to go and
check it out you bet I'm going to go if
I get if I get a chance I would go with
you yeah just let me know yeah
absolutely and you wrote a book called
the sign and the seal I did about the
Ark of the Covenant so and that was my
my first Venture into
what shall we call historical mystery
and in Ethiopia I came across this
really quite by chance
um I came I found myself in the city of
Aksum in Tigre in Northern Ethiopia
and there were some strange processions
going on and wonderful music and dancing
and rituals being performed and I asked
what's this all about and they said well
we have the we have the Ark of the
Covenant here
um and these these um uh ceremonials are
in honor of the of the Ark of the
Covenant and you've got the Ark of the
Covenant here I've Just Seen Raiders of
the Lost Ark you know you've got the Ark
of the Covenant here where and they and
they said well it's in that enclosure
and there's a huge religious enclosure
in the heart of Aksum which contains a
16th century church church of Saint Mary
of Zion and beside it a little chapel
and it's in that Chapel that the
Ethiopians claim the ark is kept and
this is not a minor issue for Ethiopians
this is a very major issue for them it's
fundamental to Ethiopian culture it's
something that a lot of people don't
understand and it's kind of odd because
the Ark of the Covenant is a
pre-christian relic and Ethiopia is
largely a Christian country why is it
Ethiopian Christianity which is very Old
Testament in its form very unnew
Testament in its form why is it but
still calling it self-christianity why
is it venerating a pre-christian
non-Christian Relic that belongs to Old
Testament times and
so I began to do my own investigation
and my own investigation included a lot
of time spent with the indigenous
Ethiopian Jews this is something again
that's not not widely known but there
there has been lost track going back
into remote prehistory a judaic
community in Ethiopia and in Ethiopia
there they're known as the falashes they
refer to themselves as the beta Israel
the house of Israel and they they say
that their ancestors brought the Ark of
the Covenant to Ethiopia and it happened
in this way
that first of all their ancestors lived
on an island in the Nile
and they they lived there for some
hundreds of years well that's the first
thing I checked was there ever a Jewish
community on an island in the Nile yes
there was when the island of elephantine
opposite the modern city of Aswan in
Upper Egypt around 650 BC the general
story is that the ark was uh stolen by
the Babylonians about 60 years later in
587 BC but the Babylonians have no
records of the Ark of the Covenant they
were ferocious bureaucrats and they kept
detailed records of everything they
stole from the Temple of Jerusalem
didn't include the ark the ark logically
was gone before the Babylonians ever got
there and and suddenly the philosus
story of their ancestors living on an
island in the Nile starts to make sense
and then I go in further into it and I
discovered that around 400 BC there was
conflict between that Jewish community
and the Egyptians
the conflict was because the Ireland
development team was dedicated to the
god known and the Egyptian god known is
a ram-headed deity and the Jewish
community on that island were
sacrificing Rams and this and again this
is historically established they were
thrown out they were they were driven
out there's no evidence that they were
massacred they were just driven out of
that island and that's where it connects
with the philasia stories that their
ancestors were driven out of that island
and they Then followed the Nile River
system they did not go north through a
hostile Egypt they went South and they
thought the Nile of course divides into
two branches the Blue Nile and the White
Nile the White Nile rises in Uganda the
Blue Nile rises in Lake Tana in Ethiopia
and Lake Tana in Ethiopia is the center
the absolute center of the area in which
the Ethiopian Jews lived wow um and and
suddenly it all began to make sense
interesting you know and and and and and
and and could be stood up as a
reasonable I never saw the object that
is called The Ark itself and maybe
um that's just as well because the
Guardians of the art get sick and die
very very rapidly is it yeah you said
that he said that people come out with
burns on their face they typically get
cataracts they get blinded by cataracts
which is a which is something that
happens with radiation damage but your
your Narrative of the Ark of the
Covenant would preclude the Templars
guarding it because they were later well
no it wouldn't actually okay um in this
sense that I came across a a great
Scottish traveler called James Bruce of
Canad okay and James Bruce wrote a book
in the
1780s or 90s called travels to discover
the source of the Nile
and in which he claimed to have
discovered the source of the Blue Nile
in or near Lake Tana what's puzzling
about that is he already knew of a
Portuguese priest who'd put that
together 60 years before
and James Bruce had a powerful interest
in the Ark of the Covenant and was
present in Aksum during the ceremony of
timkat when replicas of the Ark of the
Covenant are brought out and I began to
get very interested in his story and I
became convinced although I couldn't
prove it that he had been a Freemason
and that he was his free Masonic
interest that had taken him to Ethiopia
let's not forget that James Bruce
brought something back from Ethiopia he
brought back the Book of Enoch wow we
would not have the Book of Enoch and it
hadn't been for that Scottish traveler
getting a copy of it written in the
Ethiopian sacred language and and having
it then translated ancient alien
abduction story if I've ever heard the
Book of Enoch was a lost book until but
it had been preserved in Ethiopia and
James Ruiz found it and and brought it
back brought it back to Europe
um but uh I I thought what it could have
motivated him and could he have been a
Freemason and I began to look into this
and I couldn't find evidence for it I
went to his his grave which is in a
little churchyard in Scotland near Falco
and I found that the grave was in a
state of disrepair but the Obelisk that
had stood over the grave was lying on
its side in the car park and it was
clear that something was going on so I
went to The Keeper of the church and I
asked him about this and he said oh yes
we're restoring the grave of James Bruce
right now and the Obelisk will be will
be re-erected there and and I I said
who's who's funding this and he said
well it's the Earl of Elgin
oh how interesting
um those were the days when you could
pick up the phone and call an Earl and I
I did that
um in the probably 1990 when we're
researching the sign and the seal I I I
I called the broomhill estate where the
heir of Elgin lives and he answered the
phone
and I said look I'm this may seem very
odd to you but I'm I'm a journalist and
I'm investigating the story of James
Bruce of Canad and I understand you have
an interest in him can I come and talk
to you about him
and he said grottley I'll give you half
an hour
he gave me five hours and my wife Santa
and I went to his place his estate and
we sat down and talked to him and at the
end of it rather nervously I said look
I've been working on this theory that
James Bruce was a Freemason but I can't
stand it up I can't prove it he said my
dear boy of course he was a freebies and
he gave me the lodge the kill winning
lodge number two in Edinburgh that James
Bruce was a member of and more than that
he was a speculative Freemason who was
interested in the esoteric side of
Freemasonry and so his journey to
Ethiopia I think was very strongly
connected to the Ark of the Covenant now
we come to the Templars yeah uh be the
the and the Templar connection with
Freemasonry and the fact that the
the speculation that I put in the sign
and the seal that Templars had gone to
Ethiopia in search of the Ark of the
Covenant uh there was a time when an
Ethiopian Prince whose name was
lalibella was an exile in Jerusalem and
that was during the Crusades when the
Templars held the whole Temple mount the
the Al-Aqsa mosque was their palace the
the template the Temple Mount was there
at exactly the time that an Ethiopian
Prince exiled was present in Jerusalem
I speculated that he tipped the Templars
off that the Ark of the Covenant was in
Ethiopia and weirdly lalibella then went
back to Ethiopia with a strange force of
people who installed him on the throne
of Ethiopia who sound like foreigners
not Ethiopians and then he created these
incredible churches which are the
rockhoun churches of lalibella one of
which has a Templar cross painted on its
ceiling and an image of the Al-Aqsa
mosque with a cross on top of it which
only happened when the Templars were
using it as their palace so I began to
see a possible connection here the the
the Templars did have a long-term
interest in this object that they had
learned some intelligence about it
during their stay in Jerusalem and that
they'd followed that intelligence to
Ethiopia and put lalibala back on the
throne and been involved in the
construction of his amazing churches all
speculation of course that's fascinating
interesting speculation but you've made
a lot of pretty compelling connections
[Music]
there's so many examples of anomalous
megalithic architecture it's almost so
much that it's not even anomalous
anymore that you show in your
docu-series and you've speculated that
these things aren't built using kind of
modern engineering techniques they're
used they're built used using kind of
ancient engineering techniques to take
techniques and technologies that we
don't know about that we haven't we
haven't used now it's very important to
emphasize that this is speculation
absolutely not a fact yes I think I
suggest I speculate that we have allowed
innate some innate human abilities to
fall into disuse to lapse and not only
that but we've actually we've actually
come to to despise those who think that
such abilities exist yeah so it's almost
the same as saying you're in The Lunatic
Fringe if you say that you believe that
telepathy and telekinesis or telepathy
we're harder to control if you have
those abilities yeah and and and and
they ignore work for example somebody
you should talk to is perhaps you have
is Dr Rupert sheldrake oh yeah huge fan
he's incredibly important out of the box
thinker and and mainstream scientists
he's a highly qualified scientist and
all of his protocols for the morphic
field experiments are very rigorous
they're very rigorous he's done very
detailed work on on for example
telephone telepathy
how is it that so many of us hear the
phone ring and we know already or we're
really thinking about the individual who
calls us a universal Human Experience
exactly and that's every people discount
their own phenomenology yeah for a Dogma
which is like if you were to pull nine
people out of ten on the street and they
say have you experienced it everybody's
like yeah I've had that experience but
that's not real exactly because why
can't because the high Priests of
science have told us that we mustn't
believe it exactly
um whereas in fact Rupert's Rupert's
work shows that these abilities do exist
that human beings do have the ability
for telepathy I don't know if he's done
work on telekinesis where where objects
are moved directly with the power of the
Mind rather than using a machine or a
lever to to move them but that it's kind
of telekinesis that I'm suggesting to
say that the ancient Egyptians moved 200
ton blocks of stone on wet sand
okay
at ground level that's fine but to move
200 ton blocks of stone
350 feet in the air right and to build
them into a chamber in the heart of the
Great Pyramid that is another matter so
I Think It's Perfectly Natural and
reasonable to speculate them they may
have been using some ability
or some technology that we have not
embraced and that we do not understand
and that if we had not become so
dependent on mechanical advantage and
leverage we might have been doing things
a very different way there are a number
of ancient Egyptian Traditions that
speak of the priests levitating these
large blocks and this is accompanied by
sound
chanting music as played and it plays a
part in the lifting up of the blocks a
number of traditions about this which I
think perhaps deserve to be taken more
seriously than they have been not
necessarily Fantastical Tales having
climbed the Great Pyramid five times
having
seen the Majesty of its construction and
the intricacy of its construction I'm
persuaded that we're dealing with
something we don't fully understand and
be better to admit that rather than come
up with these pure speculations that are
the work of each of egyptologists just
as I'm speculating that it was telepathy
or telekinesis but the frame should be
speculation versus speculation that yeah
there should be speculation versus
speculation rather saying this is
established fact because it isn't it
isn't established fact and and you know
then we have to come to grips with other
aspects of the Great Pyramid which I
often talk about which are also
neglected by egyptology which is it's
extremely precise alignment to true
north
that on a six million tonne Monument
with a 13 acre footprint is no easy task
to and it involves astronomy it involves
precise astronomy the figure is isn't it
mapped Orion's Belt in some way well
that's that's another that's another
very important issue and this is the
work of my great friend and colleague
Robert bavar uh who came up with the
Orion correlation theory in 1994 in his
book The Orion mystery he was the first
person to notice wow that the three
great pyramids on the Giza Plateau have
a stunningly similar pattern yeah to the
three stars of the belt of Orion and
Orion is not just any constellation in
the ancient Egyptian system Orion is the
god of Cyrus in the sky that's that's
the the celestial figure of Orion of of
the constellation that we call Orion was
the celestial figure of the god Osiris
in the sky to the ancient Egyptians so
not only do they do they model the belt
stars of that constellation but that
constellation is also an important one
to the ancient Egyptians so there's been
so many bogus attempts to to discredit
Robert's important work on their own and
the saw human soul is supposed to come
through Iran's but I was really
importantly yes yes the right and that's
and that's a curious worldwide tradition
because you find that in America too in
the man Builder cultures in America
there wasn't belief that the soul enters
the afterlife Journey Through the
constellation of Orion the ancient
Egyptians believed in a in a whole
afterlife realm through which we through
which we travel and the constellation of
Orion plays a plays a key role in that
they called this they called this realm
the Duart and as we die in this world we
enter that world and we make a journey
and we will be and it's a hazardous
journey and we need to be prepared for
it in advance that's one of the reasons
I think psychedelics were used in
ancient Egypt as part of preparation for
this after death Journey then you
realize that it's not just the Giza
Pyramids the the the the
um the pyramids of dashur The Red
Pyramid and the bent pyramid are also
part of the diagram moving up into the
constellation of Taurus there's it looks
like a whole
Stellar landscape was mapped on the
ground at Giza it's a it's a much bigger
picture and and again it's unfortunate
that egyptology hasn't been willing to
engage with this he just wants to write
it off I think it has a lot to do with
egyptologists being entirely ignorant in
astronomy right you know yeah it's crazy
also analogous to all of the work that
you do and and you document a lot of
this as well around human history being
so much older is this precocious
knowledge of the stars that these
ancient civilizations seems to have like
like you look at Sumerian artifacts that
show a heliocentric Universe thousands
of years astronomers the the universe
was and and then you have to ask
yourself that knowledge system that
manifests in the Sumerians did not begin
with the Sumerians that's something that
goes back much further it's a it's a
it's a universal in my view it's a
universal human Legacy from A Lost
Civilization of prehistoric Antiquity
passed around passed all around around
the world and maybe they came from the
stars or something because why would I
don't need to go there
um and and I've I've never found
that's like an Eric Von Danica yeah I
don't I didn't I don't need to go where
Eric goes yeah yeah um I think Eric I
know Eric and I think he did I think he
did a good job of alerting people to
mystery in the past but I personally
think that the answer he came up with
that it was Ancient Aliens in high-tech
spacecraft who came here I I think
that's an unnecessary argument in order
to explain the anomalies that we
confront and I think are much more
elegant and much simpler explanation is
a lost human civilization of the Ice Age
which was destroyed in in the global
cataclysm of the younger dryas which had
survivors and those survivors found ways
to pass their knowledge down to the
Future and that's the period that the
the period that we call the younger
dryers is the period that the ancient
Egyptians call Zep Tepe the first time
they call it the first time and that's
that's where they say all their
knowledge came from so I don't seek to
divorce the ancient Egyptians from the
Great Pyramid of Giza the ancient
Egyptians were definitely involved in
the construction of the Great Pyramid of
Giza but I think the Great Pyramid of
Giza sits on top of something much older
and part of it is the Subterranean
chamber 100 feet vertically beneath the
base of the Great Pyramid I think that's
the original sacred site on the Giza
plateau and so in the Sphinx according
to people like you and Robert shark has
uh water damage on the nose
monuments of the Giza Plateau are
multiple and very complex and in the
case of the pyramids I do accept that
the ancient Egyptians were directly
involved in completing The Monuments as
we see them now but they were building
on a more ancient structures but there
are there are structures on the Giza
plateau and the Great Sphinx is one of
them which are clearly much older the
Robert shocks work let's put that in its
proper context I I I do want to pay
tribute to Robert Shaw because one of
the few academics who's who's been
willing to stick his neck out and and
suggest that the Great Sphinx that any
enigmatic Monument from the ancient
world is more than 12 000 years old not
four and a half thousand years old as
egyptologists tell us
the the evidence for that was initially
proposed by um John Anthony West who was
the first to draw wide-scale public
attention to the possibility that the
Sphinx bore evidence of water weathering
and Robert shock then came we John West
brought Robert shock to the Giza Plateau
as a geologist and Robert shop took a
very detailed and careful look at it and
concluded that what we're looking at on
the Sphinx and is particularly evidence
on the trench surrounding the Sphinx is
precipitation-induced weathering
weathering that was caused by heavy
heavy rainfall not a flood that washed
over the Giza Plateau but extremely
heavy rainfall and the world's climate
has changed dramatically several times
and that dramatic climate change that
was the younger dryas between 12 800 and
11 600 years ago which brought freezing
temperatures further north resulted in
heavy rainfall in the Sahara Desert and
over Egypt and that's the period when
the geology says that the Great Sphinx
was made and like the pyramids
the ancient Egyptians cannot be divorced
from the Great Sphinx the very fact that
the Sphinx has the head of a pharaoh
tells us that the ancient Egyptians were
involved in it but what we think and
when I say we the late great John
Anthony West Robert shot myself and a
number of others think is that the Great
Sphinx Mano safe zadeh is another man
who's doing really important work on
this and he's he's fluent in ancient
Egyptian hieroglyphs as well
um the
argument is that the Great Sphinx was
originally a lion totally a lion not
just a lion body with a human head but a
lion body with a lion head so the fair
the Pharaoh aspect yes originally it was
the prehistoric Sphinx was a lion
um and and then the lion head uh became
heavily eroded and damaged us thousands
of years past and in the time of the
Pharaohs it was transformed it was cut
down and remade into the human head that
we see on it today wearing the classic
Nemesis headdress of an ancient Egyptian
pharaoh but the fact that that nemis
headdress and the head of effect of some
Pharaoh not necessarily Cafe is found on
the Great Sphinx speaks to later
remodeling by the ancient Egyptians it
doesn't deal at all with the issue of
the precipitation-induced weathering
that says that the whole site is
actually much older so just as the
ancient Egyptians were involved in
completing the Great Pyramids which I do
not dispute they were also involved in
the Great Sphinx but they found it
already present on the Giza Plateau do
you believe not just in Atlantis but in
civilizational Cycles so in many
esoteric Traditions you know there would
be different sort of root races or
civilizational Cycles like the
hyperboreans the lemurians the
atlanteans do I've not needed to go that
far
um I I think I've had enough of a
challenge to to deal with making the
case for one Lost Civilization without
seeking to make the case for multiple
civilizations but I'm not writing that
off as a possible it might require you
looking at the Ark of the Covenant
um I I think that that's to me that's a
bridge too far which I've I've focused
all my efforts on trying to make this
case and to make it in a you know in a
way that makes sense to people and that
is supported by evidence it's clear that
Civilization is cyclical that things
come and go great civilizations rise and
fall it was only in the 1920s or the
1930s that we became aware of the
existence of such a thing as the Indus
Valley Civilization which is along the
banks of the Indus River in Pakistan
behind jadero and harappa were unknown
sites in in the 1920s it was only an
accidental Discovery uh Railway workers
building a railway line that actually
led to that and then the dating of it 5
000 plus years old this extraordinarily
sophisticated civilization that existed
along the Indus River was totally
unknown it was A Lost Civilization we
still haven't learned to read its
language although they had a written
language so civilizations can get lost
civilizations can rise and can fall it
happened again and again and I'm really
only saying that that maybe happened
much earlier from a time that we've
forgotten and in Supernatural you talk
about shifting a little to aliens
because we talk about that a lot on this
show yeah you talk about uh modern
abductions and UFO sightings kind of
paddled now we're getting onto a subject
I'm I'm happy to talk about well let's
do it because because because I I think
that the physical aliens coming here in
spaceships yes or flying sources from
from other planets
um is
fundamentally it's it's a it's a
materialist proposition it's it's about
tech and about material things like the
Elon Musk worldview it's not yeah it's a
Consciousness world it's not it's not a
Consciousness world view
um what was what was striking to me was
a conversation I had with the late Pablo
amaringo an Amazonian Shaman who did who
painted his Visions after he'd been on
Oscar Journey he would sit down and pay
he created thousands of beautiful
beautiful paintings and in many of those
paintings there are flying saucers
so I said to Pablo is this um
I basically said is this Ancient Aliens
you're talking about are there are those
spaceships that have come from other
planets and he said no those are
vehicles for entering and leaving the
spirit world and when a shaman talks
about the spirit world that Shaman is
talking about what Quantum physicists
would call a parallel parallel Dimension
or a parallel realm and
I'm not denying that there are physical
elements to the UFO experience there
certainly are
um they do show up in radar traces here
here and there there are physical
elements to it but exactly what they are
is not yet clear yeah are they are they
as Pablo said vehicles for entering and
leaving let's put it in modern language
and parallel realm and parallel universe
rather than vehicles to take us across
Interstellar space in this universe and
then you come down to the Consciousness
issue you come down to the fact and I
document this at length in Supernatural
the inspiration for the idea came from
Jaco Valley yeah I want to give him
credit we just did an interview with him
did you you know there's something
deeper that creates the illusion of
space and time in humans yeah I I've
huge I've never met Jack valet
admiration for him because his book
passport to Magonia was a breakthrough
book and anybody who's interested in the
alien UFO mystery needs to go read
passport to Magonia and I quoted from it
extensively in Supernatural published in
in 2005. he was the first to recognize
that there are incredible
phenomenological parallels
between the entities that were called
fairies and elves in the Middle Ages and
the entities that we call aliens today
astonishing parallels
those fairies and elves would do surgery
on people they would abduct people they
would have sex with people they would
produce hybrid babies and then go into
spirits and the whole issued of shamans
and what Spirits are about and realize
that this is going back now thousands of
years and that these and that these
experiences are documented in cave art
all around the world and you'll find
again that the phenomenology is the same
shamans are always having sex with
spirits and and often have babies in
another realm might explain the
Immaculate Conception well yeah and and
um you know this is I I often tell it is
a joke but but it's true I know of a
shaman in the Amazon whose wife left him
because of his wife in the spirit world
uh wow he had not only a wife over there
had kids over there too oh my God we
have the same phenomenology in
encounters with Spirits by shamans
documented in cave art going back tens
of thousands of years we have that
phenomenology and encounters with
fairies and elves in the Middle Ages and
we have the identical phenomenology in
encounters with aliens today and I think
it's obvious we're looking at the same
experience Through Time construed
through different cultural lenses do you
think Gnostic or kabbalistic Traditions
have attempted to make deliberate
contacts so I think any tradition that
makes use of psychedelics whether they
want to or not are going to make
deliberate contact
I I mean I had
on one of my early
Ayahuasca Journeys in the in the Amazon
I had an a typical Alien Encounter
and I was sitting on a bench outside the
Shaman's Hut feeling pretty ill because
that's what Ayahuasca does with you and
I was having these wild visions and and
then I saw not one but several
flying saucers up above me and I saw
this characteristic alien face you know
this sort of heart-shaped large dark
eyes
um materialize up there
and I got the very strong message that
they were going to take me away we're
going to take you and that's where I was
a coward because I was seeing these
things with my eyes closed and you can
often stop Visions by opening your eyes
and I opened my eyes I shouted no
I would think someone like you would
want to go well I've regretted it ever
since because what I should have done
was keep my eyes shut and say yes take
me yeah but I was scared shitless I was
literally scared stiff and and and it
shook me to my core actually this thing
this thing I've mentioned this a number
of times recently but
there's a really important project going
on at Imperial College in London and
this is the first time that psychedelics
have been trialled with human volunteers
not to see what the therapeutic benefit
is but to understand the phenomenology
and DMT is particularly effective about
in bringing about entity encounters uh
Terence McKenna's machine elves for for
example what's happening at Imperial
College
is that they've found a way to keep
people in the DMT state for an hour
normally it's 10 to 15. yes an
intravenous trip and and they keep them
in a steady DMT state for an
and while doing that they put them in
MRI scanners and they interview them
they talk to them to the to the extent
that they're able to talk and quite
often with a full-blown DMT Journey
you're not able to talk until afterwards
but but because they're in the journey
for an hour they're able to process the
experience much much more effectively
than if you're in the journey for 10
minutes and this is really serious work
that's being done at Imperial College
it's being done with large numbers of
volunteers this is Christopher Timmerman
Chris Timberman is the is the head of
the project yeah yeah he's he's the guy
who who runs that project and many
others many other scientists working
with him on that project and they will
sit with the volunteers through the
whole hour and talk to them and as
particularly what they want to know is
about entities what entities are you
encountering now some might say what's
the use of this but I say it's
incredibly useful because what they're
doing is they're exploring the DMT realm
uh and and and these are like early
explorers from from our time you know
who went out and the Wilderness and came
back with stories about what they'd seen
these volunteers are going out into the
DMT Wilderness and coming back with
stories of what they've seen and the
stories are remarkably consistent that
they're encountering the same entities
in the same setting and normally when
large number of people agree on the same
experience we're inclined to Define that
experience as real and it's only the
prejudices of our civilization that lead
us to dismiss it as unreal or as mere
hallucinations there's something about
it's nothing mere yeah about these
experiences there's something about DMT
that's fundamental to the human story in
a way that we we don't understand like
it's you talk about it being the tree of
life or the the acacia tree
being the Tree of Life in Egypt and then
in Freemasonry The Acacia Leaf is is a
big is a kind of place prominent it
plays a role in Freemasonry and um
there's there's no doubt about it the
wood out of which the Ark of the
Covenant was made was acacia wood right
yeah and then and then there's something
you know I think both of our World Views
might be more akin to sort of pan
psychic pan psychism or something than
you know materialist reductionism the
separation of mind and matter and DMT
exists in all organic material so it's
it's something no matter how prejudiced
you may be against DMT you cannot get
rid of it yes it's everywhere you can
it's a natural brain
we we make it yeah the human body makes
the end too yes and it makes it at very
interesting times as well it makes it uh
at around the time in the womb when your
identity sort of forms in maybe an
amnesis occurs and you forget your sort
of past self uh it occurs during REM
sleep and then and then when you die
near death yeah um and and normally it's
in sub-psychedelic quantities but maybe
maybe many of the natural Visionaries
that we've had who've not who've not
taken the Psychedelic they just have
visions people like Joan of Arc yeah for
example well we now know the brain we
thought that the brain couldn't produce
it it was produced in the lungs now we
know that the brain can endogen
endogenously secrete the Mt and DMT
receptors are all over the brain chemo
Mortgage in at Michigan yeah it's pretty
amazing it's pretty amazing yeah and you
know the the the the human body and the
brain is is it doesn't waste resources
there's a reason that that is there
there's a reason that those receptors
are there clearly DMT is very important
for us and and
um alongside other psychedelics I mean
in many ways psilocybin is rightly
referred to as orally active DMT inside
a cybin molecule in the DMT molecule are
very closely related
um these that it's it's more broadly the
tryptamine family that that induced
these extraordinary experiences in us or
allow us to have experiences that in a
an alert problem-solving State of
Consciousness we will never never never
I don't think Consciousness requires
physical bodies I think Consciousness is
fundamental to the universe I think it's
a fundamental force in the universe like
gravity Consciousness is is there but
Consciousness outside a physical body is
is obviously going to be limited in the
range of things that it can experience
once you immerse Consciousness in a
physical body then that physical body
and the person who's inside that
physical body is going to face the
challenges of physical life we're going
to have to make choices all the way
through our lives some of those choices
may be very hurtful to others some of
them may be helpful nurturing Positive
Choices we are living in a theater of
experience we have we have the chance to
learn and to grow and to develop in
physical bodies but we cannot be reduced
to our physical bodies Consciousness
cannot be reduced to the brain rather it
rather it manifests through the brain
yeah in my view yeah or the physical
exactly the physical body is a filter or
a reduction on a reducing bar on exactly
on a default state of Greater knowledge
and understanding and that's why mystery
rituals you're temporarily killing that
collapsing function yes so that you kind
of glitch into this greater knowledge
into this wider this wider reality which
we are all part of but but in order to
survive in this Physical Realm
um we tend to get very focused on this
Physical Realm and that's not a bad
thing I often say and I'll say it again
now that that if I get into an airplane
I would like the pilot to be in an alert
problem-solving State of Consciousness I
do not not want my pilot visiting
parallel Realms while he's flying me
from A to B once he gets off the plane
he can do all the DMT he wants but while
he's flying me the alert problem-solving
State of Consciousness is very useful
for certain functions yes and we should
not dismiss it it's part of us but it's
not the only it's not all we are are you
darwinian or are you do you think so
look there's more to the story I think
there's much more to the story I think
so too I think there's vastly more to
the story however
I would not be I would never be a person
who denies that Evolution takes place
there is such a thing as Evolution it
would be absurd to suggest that there is
not
um we live on a hazardous Planet there
are all sorts of issues that can bring
particular life forms to an end or
nearly to an end the Clear Point is the
extinction of the dinosaurs 66 million
years ago nobody disputes now that that
was done by a comet or an asteroid the
chicks group crater in in the Yucatan
deep now beneath the earth and the sea
is the evidence for that and and and
there's a line in the in the earth a
rare of a a
a line of Earth which contains all the
classic indicators of a cosmic impact
exactly the same as the younger driest
band yeah why is one so controversial on
the other well initially the extinction
of the dinosaurs was controversial Lewis
and Walter Alvarez were ridiculed by
their peers typical of science rather
than saying oh here's an interesting
idea let's see what's good in it they
said here's an idea which goes against
everything we think so let's destroy it
right and they spent 10 years destroying
the idea of Lewis and Walter Alvarez
until they found the crater the crater
was The Smoking Gun so I think that it
would be observed to say that there's no
such thing as Evolution because we've
got to be able life the whole thing of
Life the whole project of life
has got to render itself very hard to
wipe out and evolution is one of the
ways that it renders itself very hard to
wipe out but is evolution the whole
story no this survival of the fittest
the whole story definitely not Evolution
wants to see human consciousness as a
byproduct of survival of the fittest
that we needed these big brains to
thrive in the jungle of competition and
as an accidental byproduct of that we
got Consciousness I don't think it's an
accidental byproduct of that I think
it's the I think it's the focus of I
think it's what evolution is all about
so
while I don't wish to
dismiss Evolution I do want to say that
we're only getting a tiny fraction story
there maybe is a teleology that's a
little more preordained than we think
too yes Evolution yes like a guy like
Henry bergson you know in Creative
Evolution would write that there's
there's a there's more of a clear end
point than we than we realize and I
suspect that's true I think so I think I
think that under the lair that's been
identified by science the layer of
darwinian evolution hidden beneath that
is a whole other layer that's going on
which is directed and we are we are
seeing a project working out and
evolution is the way is one of the means
one of the tools that is used by that
project and you brought up Rupert
sheldrake that's definitely a gap in
evolution where yes if it you know a
thousand people do a crossword puzzle
and you do that tomorrow and then you do
a control group crossword puzzle that no
one's done you're more likely to
complete the the one that a thousand
people have done there's some sort of
collective yes we're part of some sort
of collective intelligence that that we
are connected Perhaps telepathically
Perhaps in some other way with all of
the rest of the human race and it's why
it's so absurd now that we live on this
planet that we have this Majestic Planet
at our disposal we have our
Consciousness we have these huge brains
and what are we doing we're still
spreading hatred and fear and suspicion
and we're still murdering each other on
mass scale you know dictators with with
with nukes uh threatening threatening
the world again I mean this is such a
failure of the potential of the human
race we need to graduate beyond that
simplistic tribal level there was a role
for tribal Society once but in a
globally integrated World it isn't
helpful anymore to have these tribal
mindsets where you know we're better
than you and because we're different
from you we're going to kill you right
this is just nonsense are we going to
take your stuff by the way as well this
is a sign of a species that has a lot of
Consciousness Evolution still to go
through yeah well maybe you and Randall
Carlson need to start a school or
something
TV series but well it's reaching a lot
of people and it's amazing to see the
docu series it's always an honor to talk
to you I I really admire you and you
have to promise to let me to tag along
at one of your excursions Absolutely
I'll do whatever you need absolutely
we'll make it happen Jesse we'll
definitely make it happen appreciate it
great to talk to you likewise thank you
uh